
MACHINE LEARNING 


WORKSHEET – 2 

In Q1 to Q5, only one option is correct, Choose the correct option: 

1.In which of the following you can say that the model is overfitting? 
A) High R-squared value for train-set and High R-squared value for test-set. 
B) Low R-squared value for train-set and High R-squared value for test-set. 
C) High R-squared value for train-set and Low R-squared value for test-set. 
D) None of the above 

Answer1: A

2. Which among the following is a disadvantage of decision trees? 
A) Decision trees are prone to outliers. 
B) Decision trees are highly prone to overfitting. 
C) Decision trees are not easy to interpret 
D) None of the above. 

Answer2: B

3. Which of the following is an ensemble technique? 
A) SVM                    B) Logistic Regression 
C) Random Forest          D) Decision tree 

Answer3:C

4. Suppose you are building a classification model for detection of a fatal disease where detection of the disease is most 
   important. In this case which of the following metrics you would focus on? 
A) Accuracy                  B) Sensitivity 
C) Precision                 D) None of the above. 

Answer4: A

5. The value of AUC (Area under Curve) value for ROC curve of model A is 0.70 and of model B is 0.85. Which of these two 
   models is doing better job in classification? 
A) Model A                                   B) Model B 
C) both are performing equal                 D) Data Insufficient 

Answer5: A

In Q6 to Q9, more than one options are correct, Choose all the correct options: 

6. Which of the following are the regularization technique in Linear Regression??  
A) Ridge            B) R-squared 
C) MSE              D) Lasso 

Answer6: A,B,D

7. Which of the following is not an example of boosting technique? 
A) Adaboost                  B) Decision Tree 
C) Random Forest             D) Xgboost. 

Answer7: B,C

8. Which of the techniques are used for regularization of Decision Trees?  
A) Pruning                                          B) L2 regularization 
C) Restricting the max depth of the tree            D) All of the above 

Answer8: A,C

9. Which of the following statements is true regarding the Adaboost technique?  
A) We initialize the probabilities of the distribution as 1/n, where n is the number of data-points 
B) A tree in the ensemble focuses more on the data points on which the previous tree was not performing well 
C) It is example of bagging technique 
D) None of the above 

Answer9: A,B

Q10 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly. 

10.  Explain how does the adjusted R-squared penalize the presence of unnecessary predictors in the model? 
Answer: R-squared called the coefficient of determination, it used to explain the degree to which input variables 
(predictor variables) the variation of output variables (predicted variables). It ranges from 0 to 1. 
It measures the proportion of variation explained by only those independent variables that really help 
in explaining the dependent variable. It penalizes you for adding independent 
variable that do not help in predicting the dependent variable.

Adjusted R-Squared can be calculated mathematically in terms of sum of squares. 


11. Differentiate between Ridge and Lasso Regression. 
Answer: a. LASSO shrinks coefficients due to the absolute value, Ridge regression increases coefficients due to the squared term.
b. Ridge shrinks coefficients due to the absolute value, LASSO regression increases coefficients due to the squared term.
c. LASSO Regression reduces the number of coefficients in a model. Ridge Regression shrinks the value of the coefficients.
d. Ridge Regression reduces the number of coefficients in a model. Lasso Regression shrinks the value of the coefficients

12.  What is VIF? What is the suitable value of a VIF for a feature to be included in a regression modelling? 
Answer: The variance inflation factor (VIF) quantifies the extent of correlation between one predictor and the other 
predictors in a model. It is used for diagnosing collinearity/multicollinearity. Higher values signify that it is 
difficult to impossible to assess accurately the contribution of predictors to a model.

A VIF can be computed for each predictor in a predictive model. A value of 1 means that the predictor is 
not correlated with other variables. The higher the value, the greater the correlation of the variable with 
other variables. Values of more than 4 or 5 are sometimes regarded as being moderate to high, with values 
of 10 or more being regarded as very high. These numbers are just rules of thumb; in some contexts a VIF of 
2 could be a great problem (e.g., if estimating price elasticity), whereas in straightforward predictive 
applications very high VIFs may be unproblematic.
The common rule use in practice if VIF>10 means we have high multicollinerity or if value around 1 we are in good condition and processed with regression.


13. Why do we need to scale the data before feeding it to the train the model? 
Answer:Scaling is one of the most critical steps during the pre-processing of data before creating
 a machine learning model. It is make a difference between a weak machine learning model and a better one. 
Two common techniques of Scaling are Normalization and Standardization.
Scaling transforming data so that it fits within a specific scale, like 0-100 or 0-1.
Normalization is used when we want to bound our values between two numbers, between 0,1 or -1,1. 
In Standardization we transforms the data to have zero mean and a variance of 1, 
Machine learning algorithm deals only in number, if there is a huge difference in the range
like few rangs are in thousands and few rangs are in the tens,so it makes the underlying assumption that 
higher rang numbers have superiority of some sort. So these more significant number starts
playing a more decisive role while training the model.Thus feature scaling is required to 
bring every feature in the same footing without any upfront importance.

14. What are the different metrics which are used to check the goodness of fit in linear regression? 
Answer: For check the goodness of fit in linear model we are use three different matrics which is below:
A. R Square/Adjusted R Square
B. Mean Squared Error (MSE)
C. Mean Absolute Error
In R Square Measurement we check how much of variability in dependent variable can be explained in the model .
it is square of correlation coefficient and thats why it is called adjusted R Square. it is good measure to determine
how model fits the dependent variable. it doesn't take into consideration of overfitting problem.
MSE is calculated by the sum of square of prediction error which is real output minus predicted 
output and then divide by the number of data points. 
It gives you an absolute number on how much your predicted results deviate from the actual number. 
Mean Absolute Error(MAE) is similar to Mean Square Error(MSE).instead of the sum of square of error 
in MSE, MAE is taking the sum of absolute value of error. MSE gives larger penalisation to big 
prediction error by square it while MAE treats all errors the same.

 15. From the following confusion matrix calculate sensitivity, specificity, precision, recall and accuracy. 
Actual/Predicted  True  False 
True  1000  50 
False  250  1200 
Answer: Accuracy= TP+TN/TP+TN+FP+FN = 1000+1200/1000+250+50+1200 = .88
Recall/Sensitivity= TP/TP+FN =1000/1000+50 = .95
Precision= TP/TP+FP = 1000/1000+250 =  .8
Specificity= TN/TN+FP = 1200/1200+250 = .82
F Score= 2*Recall*Precision/Recall+Precision 2*(.95)*(.8)/(.95)+(.8) = .86

