Statistics– WORKSHEET 6 
 
 
 
Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question. 

1. Which of the following is the correct formula for total variation? 
a) Total Variation = Residual Variation – Regression Variation 
b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation 
c) Total Variation = Residual Variation * Regression Variation 
d) All of the mentioned 

Answer1: B

2. Collection of exchangeable binary outcomes for the same covariate data are called outcomes. 
a) random 
b) direct 
c) binomial 
d) none of the mentioned 

Answer2: C

3. How many outcomes are possible with bernoulli trial? 
a) 2 
b) 3 
c) 4 
d) None of the mentioned 

Answer3: A


4. If Ho is true and we reject it, then it is called: 
(a) Type-I error 
(b) Type-II error 
(c) Standard error 
(d) Sampling error 

Answer4: A


5. Level of significance is also called: 
(a) Power of the test 
(b) Size of the test 
(c) Level of confidence 
(d) Confidence coefficient 

Answer5: B

6. The chance of rejecting a true hypothesis decreases when sample size: 
(a) Decreases 
(b) Increases  
(c) Both of them 
(d) None of them 

Answer6: B

7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data? 
(a) Probability 
(b) Hypothesis 
(c) Causal 
(d) None of the mentioned 

Answer7: B


8.What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference? 
(a) Minimize errors 
(b) Minimize false positives 
(c) Minimize false negatives 
(d) All of the mentioned 

Answer8: D


9. Normalized data is centered at   and has unit equal to standard deviations of the original data. 
(a) 0            (b) 5 
(c) 1            (d) 10 

Answer9: A

Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly. 


10. What Is Bayes' Theorem? 
Answer10:

11. What is z-score? 
Answer11: Z-score is one of the most popular methods to standardize data, and can be done by subtracting
         the mean and dividing by the standard deviation for each value of each feature. Formula of Z score
         z= value-mean/standard deviation 
         Once the standardization is done, all the features will have a mean of zero, a standard deviation of one, 
         and thus, the same scale.

12. What is t-test?   
Answer12: The t-test assesses whether the means of two groups are statistically different from each other. 
          This analysis is appropriate whenever we want to compare the means of two groups, and especially 
          appropriate as the analysis for the posttest-only two-group randomized experimental design.
 
13. What is a percentile?  
Answer13: Percentiles tells how a value compares to other values. in other words percentiles indicate the percentage of 
           scores that falls below a particular value. It tell us where a score stands relative to other scores.

14. What is ANOVA?  
Answer14: An ANOVA test is a way to find out if given data results are significant. In other words, it helps us to figure out
          if we need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis.
          Basically, we are checking data groups to see if there’s a difference between them. 

15. How can ANOVA help?
Answer15: The one-way ANOVA can help us to know whether or not there are significant differences between the means of your independent
          variables (such as the first example: age, sex, income). When we understand how each independent variable’s mean is different
          from the others.