

Statistics– WORKSHEET 4 
 
Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question. 


1. Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0. 
   a) True 
   b) False 
 
Answer1: A

2. Which of the following theorem states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly 
   normalized, becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases? 
   a) Central Limit Theorem 
   b) Central Mean Theorem 
   c) Centroid Limit Theorem 
   d) All of the mentioned 

Answer2: A

3. Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution? 
   a) Modeling event/time data 
   b) Modeling bounded count data 
   c) Modeling contingency tables 
   d) All of the mentioned 

Answer3: B

4. Point out the correct statement. 
   a) The exponent of a normally distributed random variables follows what is called the log-
   normal distribution 
   b) Sums of normally distributed random variables are again normally distributed even if the 
   variables are dependent 
   c) The square of a standard normal random variable follows what is called chi-squared 
   distribution 
   d) All of the mentioned- 

Answer4: D

5. __________ random variables are used to model rates. 
   a) Empirical 
   b) Binomial 
   c) Poisson 
   d) All of the mentioned 

Answer5: C

6. Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT. 
   a) True 
   b) False 

Answer6: B

7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data? 
   a) Probability 
   b) Hypothesis 
   c) Causal 
   d) None of the mentioned 

Answer7: B

8. Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the 
   original data. 
   a) 0 
   b) 5 
   c) 1 
   d) 10 

Answer8: A
 
9. Which of the following statement is incorrect with 
   respect to outliers? 
   a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence 
   b) Outliers can be the result of spurious or real processes  
   c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship 
   d) None of the mentioned 

Answer9: C


Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly. 


10. What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution? 
Answer10. Normal distribution, also known as the Gaussian distribution, is a probability distribution that is symmetric about the mean,
        showing that data near the mean are more frequent in occurrence than data far from the mean. In graph form, normal distribution will appear as a bell curve.
        The normal distribution is the most common type of distribution assumed in technical stock market analysis and in other types of 
        statistical analyses. The standard normal distribution has two parameters: the mean and the standard deviation. For a normal 
        distribution, 68% of the observations are within +/- one standard deviation of the mean, 95% are within +/- two standard deviations, and 99.7% are 
        within +- three standard deviations. The normal distribution model is motivated by the Central Limit Theorem. This theory states that averages calculated
        from independent, identically distributed random variables have approximately normal distributions, regardless of the type of distribution 
        from which the variables are sampled (provided it has finite variance). Normal distribution is sometimes confused with symmetrical distribution. 
        Symmetrical distribution is one where a dividing line produces two mirror images, but the actual data could be two humps 
        or a series of hills in addition to the bell curve that indicates a normal distribution.  

11. How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend? 
Answer11: There are many ways one could handle missing data - and there is single answer to this problem. 
          Some specific ways of handling this with imputation are :
          Imputation with mean : Missing data is replaced by mean of the column
          Imputation with median : Missing data is replaced by mean of the column
          Imputation with Mode: Missing data is replaced with mode of the column
          Imputation with linear regression : With real valued data, this is a common technique. 
          The missing value is replaced by performing linear regression based on the other feature values.

12. What is A/B testing 
Answer12.A/B test is a randomized experiment, in which the "A" and "B" refer to 2 variants, undertaken in order to determine which variant
         is the more "effective." A popular tool in web analytics, A/B testing is not well understood by everyone, including those who 
         utilize it regularly. Sound A/B testing should be firmly rooted in statistical hypothesis testing, yet this is not always the case.
         Beyond hypothesis testing, there are all sorts of additional concerns when designing, executing, and interpreting the results of A/B testing.

13. Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice? 
Answer13: Missing data is a well-known problem in data science. A broad class of datasets will 
    suffer from the problem that some to a lot of data entries in the dataset will not be complete, e.g. 
     they will not have values present for every single variable in the dataset.
     a.Bad practice in general
     b.If just estimating means: mean imputation preserves the mean of the observed data
     c.Leads to an underestimate of the standard deviation
     d.Distorts relationships between variables by “pulling” estimates of the correlation toward zero



14. What is linear regression in statistics? 
Answer14. In statistics, linear regression is a linear approach to modeling the relationship between a scalar response
          (or dependent variable) and one or more explanatory variables (or independent variables). The case of one explanatory variable is called 
          simple linear regression. For more than one explanatory variable, the process is called multiple linear regression.This term is distinct 
          from multivariate linear regression, where multiple correlated dependent variables are predicted, rather than a single scalar variable.
          In linear regression, the relationships are modeled using linear predictor functions whose unknown model parameters are estimated from the data. 
          Such models are called linear models.Most commonly, the conditional mean of the response given the values of the explanatory variables 
         (or predictors) is assumed to be an affine function of those values; less commonly, the conditional median or some other quantile is used. 
         Like all forms of regression analysis, linear regression focuses on the conditional probability distribution of the response given the values
          of the predictors, rather than on the joint probability distribution of all of these variables, which is the domain of multivariate analysis. 
          Linear regression was the first type of regression analysis to be studied rigorously, and to be used extensively in practical applications. 
         This is because models which depend linearly on their unknown parameters are easier to fit than models which are non-linearly related to their 
          parameters and because the statistical properties of the resulting estimators are easier to determine


15. What are the various branches of statistics? 
Answer15. The two main branches of statistics are descriptive statistics and inferential statistics. Both of these are employed in scientific 
       analysis of data and both are equally important.
       Descriptive statistics deals with the presentation and collection of data. This is usually the first part of a statistical analysis. 
       It is usually not as simple as it sounds, and the statistician needs to be aware of designing experiments, choosing the right focus group 
       and avoid biases that are so easy to creep into the experiment.
        Inferential statistics, as the name suggests, involves drawing the right conclusions from the statistical analysis that has been 
       performed using descriptive statistics. In the end, it is the inferences that make studies important and this aspect is 
        dealt with in inferential statistics.